#### Spans and Linear Independence
$v_{1}=\begin{pmatrix}2\\1\\1\end{pmatrix},v_{2}=\begin{pmatrix}1\\2\\3\end{pmatrix},v_{3}=\begin{pmatrix}9\\1\\-1\end{pmatrix}$
What is the span of $v_{1},v_{2},v_{3}$?
Are they linearly independent?

Put the vectors as columns of a matrix.
Do row reduction
$$
\left[\begin{array}{ccc|c}
2 & 1 & 9 & a \\
1 & 2 & 1 & b \\
1 & 3 & -1 & c
\end{array}\right]
$$
Check which values a, b & c does this have a solution
This resolves to
$$
\left[\begin{array}{ccc|c}
1 & 2 & 1 & b \\
0 & 1 & -2 & c-b \\
0 & 0 & 1 & a-2b+3c-3b
\end{array}\right]
$$
This is now in echelon form. 
We have a pivot in every row = solution no matter what is on the right-hand side

Thus the span of $v_{1},v_{2},v_{3}$ is all of $\mathbb{R}^3$
$v_{1},v_{2},v_{3}$ are linearly independent if $c_{1}v_{1}+c_{2}v_{2}+cv_{3}=\begin{pmatrix}0\\0\\0\end{pmatrix}$ implies $c_{1}=c_{2}=c_{3}=0$
$$
\left[\begin{array}{ccc|c}
2 & 1 & 9 & 0 \\
1 & 2 & 1 & 0 \\
1 & 3 & -1 & 0
\end{array}\right]\to^{GE} \left[\begin{array}{ccc|c}
1 & 2 & 1 & 0 \\
0 & 1 & -2 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 1 & 0
\end{array}\right]
$$
Unique solution if every column has a pivot. 
	-> Linearly independent
Multiple solutions if there exists a column without a pivot.
	-> Linearly dependent
For this problem, $v_{1},v_{2},v_{3}$ are linearly independent.

If I have more columns than rows then I definitely have a column without a pivot.

##### Another way to tell linear dependence
If I have
m columns
n rows
if m > n then $v_{1},\dots,v_{m}$ are linearly dependent.

Vectors $v_{1},\dots,v_{m}$ span $\mathbb{R}^n$ if after GE there is a pivot in every row
If m (columns) < n (rows) then these vectors do not span $\mathbb{R}^n$.

When m (columns) = n (rows) and the matrix spans $\mathbb{R}^n$ then the vectors must be linearly independent.

---

Find a vector $\begin{pmatrix}a\\b\\c\end{pmatrix}$
which is not in span $\begin{pmatrix}1\\2\\3\end{pmatrix}\begin{pmatrix}-2\\0\\5\end{pmatrix}\begin{pmatrix}-1\\2\\8\end{pmatrix}$
or conclude the span is all of $\mathbb{R}^3$

$$
\left[\begin{array}{ccc|c}
1 & -2 & -1 & a \\
2 & 0 & 2 & b \\
3 & 5 & 8 & c
\end{array}\right]
$$
Find a, b, & c such that there is no solution
Do Gaussian Elimination
$$
\left[\begin{array}{ccc|c}
1 & -2 & 1 & a \\
0 & 4 & 4 & b-2a \\
0 & 0 & 0 & 10a-11b+4c
\end{array}\right]
$$
They do not span all $\mathbb{R}^3$ because there is not a pivot in every row.
Any a, b, and c with $10a-11b+4c\neq 0$
$\begin{pmatrix}1\\0\\0\end{pmatrix},\begin{pmatrix}0\\1\\\sqrt{ 2 }\end{pmatrix},\begin{pmatrix}1\\1\\1\end{pmatrix}$
All these vectors are not in the span of $v_{1},v_{2},v_{3}$
$v_{1},v_{2},v_{3}$ are linearly dependent (no pivot in every column)
$span(v_{1},v_{2},v_{3})=\begin{pmatrix}a\\b\\c\end{pmatrix} : (10a-11b+4c=0)$ 

---

Are $v_{1}=\begin{pmatrix}-1\\4\\-2\\-3\end{pmatrix}, v_{2}=\begin{pmatrix}3\\-13\\7\\7\end{pmatrix},v_{3}=\begin{pmatrix}-2\\1\\9\\-5\end{pmatrix}$ linearly independent?

$$
\left[\begin{array}{ccc|c}
-1 & 3 & -2 & 0 \\
4 & -13 & 1 & 0 \\
-2 & 7 & 9 & 0 \\
-3 & 7 & -5 & 0
\end{array}\right]
$$
Gaussian Elimination
$$
\left[\begin{array}{ccc|c}
-1 & 3 & -2 & 0 \\
0 & -1 & -7 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 6 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 0 & 0
\end{array}\right]
$$
There is a pivot in every column therefore these vectors are linearly independent.
Because they are linearly independent, the span is three dimensional.

Are $\begin{pmatrix}1\\0\end{pmatrix},\begin{pmatrix}1\\1\end{pmatrix},\begin{pmatrix}1\\2\end{pmatrix}$ linearly independent?
More vectors than dimensions therefore not linearly dependent.