## Vector Spaces
are spans of vectors.

What is the minimal number of vectors that spans a vector space?
What are those vectors & how do we find them?

Basis: a set $B=\{ u_{1},\dots,u_{m} \}$ is a basis for $S$, a vector space, if
- $S=span(B)$
- B is linearly independent

Examples:
	$S=\mathbb{R}^2$
	Find what collection of vectors form a basis of $\mathbb{R}^2$ ($S$)
	We could use the standard basis
		$\begin{pmatrix}a\\b\end{pmatrix}=a\begin{pmatrix}1\\0\end{pmatrix}+b\begin{pmatrix}0\\1\end{pmatrix}$
	We could use another basis
		$\begin{pmatrix}a\\b\end{pmatrix}=(a-b)\begin{pmatrix}1\\0\end{pmatrix}+b\begin{pmatrix}1\\1\end{pmatrix}$
	In general we can use any two vectors in $\mathbb{R}^2$ that are linearly independent

Claim: For any vector space $S$ all basis have the same number of elements. We say this is the dimension of $S$.
	We just saw that every basis of $\mathbb{R}^2$ has 2 vectors in it. Thus $\mathbb{R}^2$ is 2 dimensional.
Is this the same thing for $\mathbb{R}^n$?
	I.e. if $\mathbb{R}^n$ has $n$-dimensions, then any basis of $\mathbb{R}^n$ has $n$ elements
	Yes it's true.
Suppose I have 5 vectors in $\mathbb{R}^4$ and I want to show that these vectors cannot be a basis for $\mathbb{R}^4$.
	There are more vectors than the dimension, so they cannot be linearly independent.
	The number of vectors must be the same as the dimension, so these vectors cannot be a basis for $\mathbb{R}^4$.
Suppose I have 3 vectors in $\mathbb{R}^4$ and I want to show these vectors cannot be a basis for $\mathbb{R}^4$.
	I'll check span of the vectors
	If every row has a pivot, then they span $\mathbb{R}^4$.
	Because there are 3 vectors and 4 rows, they cannot span $\mathbb{R}^4$.
	Therefore they cannot be a basis for $\mathbb{R}^4$.
	
$S=span\{ u_{1},u_{2},\dots,u_{m} \}$
Example:
	$S=span\{ \begin{pmatrix}-1\\2\\3\\1\end{pmatrix},\begin{pmatrix}-6\\7\\5\\2\end{pmatrix},\begin{pmatrix}4\\-3\\1\\0\end{pmatrix} \}\in \mathbb{R}^4$
	2 methods to find a basis of $S$.
	1.  Construct matrix with vectors as rows
		$$
A=\begin{bmatrix}
-1 & 2 & 3 & 1 \\
-6 & 7 & 5 & 2 \\
4 & -3 & 1 & 0
\end{bmatrix}
$$
	Do Gaussian Elimination
	$$
A=\begin{bmatrix}
-1 & 2 & 3 & 1 \\
0 & 5 & 13 & 4 \\
0 & 0 & 0 & 0
\end{bmatrix}
$$
	Rows are the elements of basis
$$
\begin{pmatrix}
-1 \\
2 \\
3 \\
1
\end{pmatrix},\begin{pmatrix}
0 \\
5 \\
13 \\
4
\end{pmatrix}
$$
	This tells us $dim(S)=2$
	2. Second method
	Write the vector as columns in a matrix and row reduce
	$$
A=\begin{bmatrix}
-1 & -6 & 4 \\
2 & 7 & -3 \\
3 & 5 & 1 \\
1 & 2 & 0
\end{bmatrix}\to \begin{bmatrix}
1 & 6 & -4 \\
0 & 1 & -1 \\
0 & 0 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 0
\end{bmatrix}
$$
	2 pivots in columns 1 and 2
	So the basis is vectors $u_{1},u_{2}$
	$B=\{ \begin{pmatrix}-1\\2\\3\\1\end{pmatrix},\begin{pmatrix}-6\\7\\5\\2\end{pmatrix} \}$
	Advantage: Get a basis that is a subset of the original set
	To check if a vector set is a basis for a matrix, check if the solution $Ax=0$ is the same

Claim: If we have $\{ u_{1},u_{2},\dots,u_{m} \}\in S$ then
1. If the vectors are linearly independent then they can be extended so that they are part of a basis $S$.
2. If $span\{ u_{1},\dots,u_{m} \}=S$ then either $\{ u_{1},u_{2},\dots,u_{m} \}$ is a basis of $S$ or it contains a basis for $S$.