Class focuses on understanding the architecture around us.
 - Place based
 - Culturally inscribed
	 What we build reflects how we think
	 Architecture is cultural heritage as is language
 - Environmentally shaped
	 How does the building interact with the natural and built environment around it?
 We won't be focused on the specific people who built these buildings, rather on the settlements and civilizations around them.

#### Online Quizzes
Open for 36 hours Friday - Saturday:
	Oct 25-26, Nov. 15-16, Dec. 6-7
Assignments due by 7PM Monday:
	Oct. 7, Nov. 4, Nov. 25
Polls + weekly group assignments:
	Cannot be made up outside of class time.

#### How we will appreciate architecture
Via perspective images & art
Bird's eye views and looking up at the buildings
Diagrams
Every culture has depicted their architecture in art
	Either realistically or abstract.
		Analytical drawings are abstract and describe how the building is laid out. This kind of drawing is a **plan**
			A map is also a plan
			Could be large scale or small scale.
				Large scale is closer to actual size, small size is where everything is really small.
		Photographs can also show plans
		How everything is laid out
		Depending on the perspective you can get some more depth.
		A cutaway axonometric is a drawing for showing 3d space along with floor plan
		A section cuts a building to show its interior
		Sometimes we see humans for scale
		When you have both a plan and section, you can get a good idea for a building (width, length, height, scale, shape of roof, doors, and sometimes materials)